---
author: admin
comments: true
date: 2012-02-29 03:23:56+00:00
layout: post
slug: one-site
title: One Site
wordpress_id: 665
categories:
- css
- web development
- wordpress
---

I just did a little adjusting to this Wordpress theme so that the site should render well on all devices now. It looked pretty good before on smartphones before, but I was employing some mobile detection to load some different styles and only render the sidebar for desktop browsers.

The main problem with this was that it messed with my cache. If a mobile browser visited the site, the mobile version was cached and served until the cache expired.

With a little more experience under my belt, it was incredibly simple to handle layout changes with media queries instead. In fact, it's much simpler than the method I used before.<!-- more -->

Admittedly, my layout is fairly simple. There are only a few images to deal with. Almost everything is done w/ CSS. So, all I really wanted to do was get rid of my floats on small screens. First I took the "mobile first" approach and got rid of my floats by default. Then I decided it would render well enough on a tablet at 768 pixels wide, so I set that as my cut-off.

[css]@media only screen and (min-width : 768px) {
   section#content {
       float: left;
       width: 73%;
   }   
   aside {
       clear: none;
       float: left;
       width: 20%;
   }   
}[/css]

The media query above displays the category navigation (which I have in an `aside` element) to the right. Anything smaller and the categories display underneath the list of blog posts.

This is a very simple example, but it gives you an idea of how easy it can be to make your design responsive.

The other bit I added was this:

[html]<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />[/html]

This essentially tells high pixel-density devices to render the content like their normal pixel-density counterparts. This meta declaration has been of some interest to me lately. It dates back to 2007 and the first iPhone. You see, Steve Jobs made a decision for you. Steve Jobs decided that the iPhone should deliver a rich web experience like any other computer. So when a page loads in Mobile Safari, it's scaled down and rendered at a functional width of 980 pixels. That means your page looks tiny _unless_ you instruct it to scale up with the meta content above.

The end result is that adding one meta tag and ten lines of CSS turned my design into a responsive one.

